Survival of humanity depends on a
successful AI. Birth rates are going
down. If you have 60% of your population
where you don't have enough people to
take care of them, that could cause a
lot of human suffering. When I got this
new job, there is zero chance I would
have been able to do it if AI wasn't
there because I didn't know anything
about so many domains that we were in.
>> A lot of companies are trying to adjust
to this new world.
>> You have to know the difference between
a mega trend and hype cycle. When
there's a mega trend, don't fight it. AI
is a mega trend. one of the most
foundational movements that we have seen
in human history
>> to turn Cisco from an older, slower,
more traditional enterprise to a very AI
forward company. This is very difficult
to do.
>> AI is moving so fast. One of the things
I tell my team is fast forward 6 months
from now. Get prepared for that world.
>> You manage 30,000 people.
>> Every management book that you read will
tell you praise in public, criticize in
private. I fundamentally disagree with
that notion. What you have to do is
establish enough trust among the team so
that you are comfortable critiquing and
debating in public.
>> What's something that you wish you'd
known before taking on this role?
>> Stamina trumps intellect. It's very
important to have smart people, but you
can become smart if you have curiosity
and hunger and staying power and
persistence. You can't teach hunger.
>> Today my guest is G2 Patel, chief
product officer and president at Cisco.
Cisco is not a brand that mostly people
think about when they think about AI,
but not only are they a massive part of
the AI infrastructure buildout that is
happening right now all over the world.
What G2 has achieved internally at Cisco
in terms of transforming their culture
and ways of working to be AI first is
something that most big company leaders
only dream about. G2 is also an
incredible human with so much warmth and
wisdom to share. I am very excited to be
sharing his story. Don't forget to check
out lennisprodpass.com
for an incredible set of deals available
exclusively to Lenny's newsletter
subscribers. Let's get into it after a
short word from our wonderful sponsors.
Applications break in all kinds of ways.
Crashes, slowdowns, regressions, and the
stuff that you only see once real users
show up. Sentry catches it all. see what
happened where and why down to the
commit that introduced the error, the
developer who shipped it and the exact
line of code all in one connected view.
I have definitely tried the five tabs
and Slack thread approach to debugging.
This is better. Sentry shows you how the
request moved, what ran, what slowed
down, and what users saw. Seir Centry's
AI debugging agent takes it from there.
It uses all of that sentry context to
tell you the root cause, suggest a fix,
and even opens a PR for you. It also
reviews your PR and flags any breaking
changes with fixes ready to go. Try
Sentry and Seir for free at
centry.io/lenny
and use code lenny for $100 in Sentry
credits. That's senry.io/lenny.
Your marketing website sets the tone for
your brand and is the one touch point
that every single one of your customers
sees. In today's age, if you're still
having a hard time making small changes
and simple updates to it, you're doing
something wrong. That is why so many
companies from earlystage startups to
Fortune 500s, including companies like
Door Dash, Zapier, Perplexity, and 11
Labs turn to Framer, the website builder
that turns your.com from a formality
into a tool for growth. Framework works
like your team's favorite design tool
and comes with real-time collaboration,
a robust CMS with everything you need
for great SEO and advanced analytics
that includes integrated AB testing.
Changes to your framer site go live to
the web in seconds with a single click
and without any help from engineering.
Whether you want to launch a new site,
test a few landing pages, or migrate
your full.com, Framer has programs for
startups, scale-ups, and large
enterprises to make going from idea to
live site as easy and fast as possible.
Learn how to turn your website into a
growth engine from a framer expert. Or
just get started building for free today
at framer.com/lenny.
And if you're a Lenny's product pass
subscriber, you get an entire year of
Framer Pro for free. Check it out at
framer.com/lenny.
Rules and restrictions may apply.
G2, thank you so much for being here and
welcome to the podcast.
>> Lenny, I'm excited. Good to see you.
>> The timing of this conversation is so
amazing. You're just coming off running
the most insane assembling of AI thought
leaders and tech leaders I've ever seen.
Let me just read a few of the names that
you guys had at the summit that just
happened a couple days ago. Uh you had
Jensen, you had Seam, and you had Mark
Andre, you had Feay Lee, you had the CEO
of Intel, AWS, uh Mike Kger, Kevin
Wheel. Like that's just like a third of
the guests you guys had. I don't I don't
know how you did this. Um but it feels
like you had this fire hose of
information coming at you. You
interviewed a lot of these people on
stage. And so while it's fresh in your
mind, I want to ask you
after doing this summit, after hearing
from these folks, what's something that
you've changed your mind about or what's
just like an insight that has been
lodged in your head ever since doing the
summit? It was an amazing thing to pull
off because I I we never thought we'd be
able to do it and we were really worried
going into it thinking, well, we're
trying to do fireside chats for 12 hours
and there's a capacity of human
absorption that we're trying to
challenge.
And so we tried to put a lot of breaks
in there. We started at 9:00 a.m. and we
ended at 9:00 p.m. and we had a couple
hour break in the middle, but everyone
stayed and um and everyone was engaged
and we could have gone until 11 and it
would have been fine. And it's because
the quality of the conversations and the
caliber of the guests that were there
made a world of a difference. Um what
was the takeaway from it? I'd say a few
things. One is, you know, the
capabilities overhang is real. I think
there's more functionality. We on one
end there's kind of this paradox of
progress. On one end, we are like, you
know, we're solving all these amazing
problems with science. On the other end,
you talk to the enterprises, they're
like we're struggling with adoption. And
I feel like there's a there's help
that's going to be needed within
organizations. And the reason I we we
pulled this thing together the goal was
what is happening in the industry and
how can we help customers make sure that
they can make the most of it because we
are in one of the most foundational
movements that we have seen in human
history and uh it's we we we got to make
sure that we make the most of it. So
that was one is the capabilities
overhang is real. The second area is I'd
say that it's harder when you go beyond
some of the most more obvious use cases
like for example coding is a very very
good use case that you know you're
starting to get a lot of success in. I
mean we just had our first product that
we think we will be in the next 2 weeks
100% written with with AI right I don't
think that's as easy when you go into
every other function of the business and
that was actually very apparent that hey
this is this is going to require some
nuance and um understanding of how every
business works and then the third one
which is the a really interesting
takeaway and Mark Andre talked about
this in your podcast a few days ago in
fact when I talked to him I actually
started with your podcast because it was
so interesting
And then we dug into it a little bit
more, but like and then you know Kevin
Scott was was also talking about this,
but this notion of the fact that
birth rates are going down and we have a
demographic shift that's happening in
the world and there's going to be more
people that are in the older age bracket
than than younger age bracket. And those
older people are going to need folks to
take care of them. And historically in
society, that's actually always been the
case. But we might be at a point where
that might not be the case. And when
that's not the case, you know, we worry
about AI taking our jobs. I think that
survival of humanity depends on a
successful AI because that's at at some
point if you have, you know, 60% of your
population that's in a in a demographic
where you don't have enough people to
take care of them that that could cause
a lot of human suffering. So, I don't
think people talk about this enough and
that's something that we have to take a
moment and digest that this is so
important for our collective success um
moving forward. Something I was going to
say during that uh my chat with Mark
when he talked about that AI is
basically coming just in time to save us
because there aren't going to be enough
people to do the jobs. I was in my head
I was thinking this is like another uh
signal that we are in a simulation that
things are working out just right for
us. What are the chances?
>> The older I get the more I believe that
we are actually in a simulation.
>> You know I the first time I heard that
concept um I thought it was such an
absurd concept. Now I'm like, you know,
this is might actually be happening.
Never know.
>> Following this thread, a lot of
companies are trying to
adjust to this new world.
You are doing an incredible job at
actually doing this. We got connected
through Kevin Wheel, who is former CPO
at OpenAI, now head of science at
OpenAI. And the way he described it is
the work that you have done to turn
Cisco, the way he described it from an
older, slower, more traditional uh
enterprise to a very AI forward company.
Uh, how many employees do you guys have?
You said 45,000.
>> We have 90,000 employees. 43,000 watch
the stream.
>> So, the big question for you is like
this is it feels like it's really
working and this is very difficult to do
at a company of that scale. A lot of
leaders are trying to make it work. What
are two or three things that you've done
that you think have been most impactful
and uh effective in helping Cisco lean
into AI, not be scared of it, not and
actually, you know, embrace the future.
You know, innovation in my mind is a
choice. So like, you know, I I always
find it interesting when people say,
well, you know, you're a large company,
you can't innovate. You're a small
company, you can innovate. It's like,
no, it's it's just a choice. Every day
you come into work and you can choose to
be thinking about being creative or you
can choose to not be creative. It's it's
like a little binary. It's a binary
choice you can make every hour, right?
Every minute of every day. And so we
made that choice that says Cisco is
going to be not just an iconic company.
And you know, Chuck Robbins, our CEO,
says this very eloquently. He's like, I
want Cisco not just to be an iconic
company. I want Cisco to also be an
iconic and innovative company. And so we
got to make sure that we are actually
innovating with the set of constraints
that we are dealt with. You know like
every company has their own set of
constraints and we have our own set of
constraints and we have to make sure
that given those constraints we have to
actually innovate really well. Now what
has what are the two or three things
that have happened that have really
helped us out. One was
um being very clear on what is up for
debate and what is not up for debate
because what can end up happening is you
can always have a pocket veto in a large
company where if you ask enough number
of people people say no. If you're a
large company you ask enough number of
people someone's going to say no, right?
And so when you have conviction about
something that's happening that is going
to be a bet that you need to place. Like
you know what what most people think in
large companies is large companies don't
experiment. That is in fact not true.
Large companies experiment a lot. What
large companies don't do is when an
experiment works they don't go all in
and double down. They try to keep
hedging.
We didn't hedge on AI. We we we said
we're going to go all in. That was
number one. What that meant was we had
to get people to understand that their
personal success and the success of the
company are very aligned in us getting
dextrous with the use of AI.
That means that if they feel like for
some reason AI is going to take their
job or AI is going to be negative for
them, we had to reassure them that that
was not the case. But the reverse was
guaranteed to be the case that if you
didn't use AI, if you weren't going to
be dextrous in whatever job function
you're doing, then your job is probably
not going to be that relevant over here
in the long run. So that was the first
thing that we did was that that was a
I'm not a big fan of top down um
hierarchy of going out and doing things.
In fact, I deep down inside I don't
respect hierarchy as much. I feel like
it it can constrain you at times but I
wanted to make sure on this one we were
very very deliberate. The entire company
is on the same page. We are an AI first
company right and this happened
we were kind of working towards it even
prior to chat GPT but chat GPT became
that seminal moment in uh November of 22
that we actually did that. So that was
one. Number two was we had to make sure
that we defined what success looked
like. The way that individual success
was defined was everyone wanted to be a
GM at Cisco. They wanted to own their
own FFTM, be a general manager cuz they
felt like in order for me to move up the
ranks, I need to be a general manager,
which means I need to have my own sales
team. I need to have my own marketing
team. I need to have my own product
team. I need to have my own engineering
team. I'm going to make sure I run my
own silo. And if you're a $40 billion
business in product revenues, 45
billion, whatever um um we were at the
time, um and and then all of a sudden
your goal is that you're going to just
run a bunch of $40 million businesses
and break it up into a series of $40
million businesses. That's actually not
a good thing for the company. So, so the
thing we did was we said we have to
become not a holding company of 251
acquisitions and thousands of different
products. We have to become a platform
company and the characteristic of the
platform is you have to be tightly
integrated where the customer feels the
same emotion no matter what product of
ours they use. Right? There's the same
set of expectations that can be served.
Reliability, trust, elegance and design.
Um solving a problem in the most
efficient way. Those are the things we
we want to strive to do.
But you don't have to buy everything all
at once because we also want to be
realistic about the fact that not every
customer only uses Cisco top to bottom.
There's there's an ecosystem. So loosely
coupled but tightly integrated. You
don't have to buy everything all at
once, but boy, when you do buy two
things together, they work like magic.
So that was the second big thing we did.
And then the third one we did was we
said, let's make sure that we have a
mental model shift in the company. And
we did this about five five and a half
years ago which when I first joined this
was a very deliberate decision which was
we cannot operate in a walled garden. We
have to make sure that we operate in an
open ecosystem which means we have to be
completely comfortable
with having a competitor that we're
going to partner with
and that's okay. You know we don't have
to think about this in a zero sum manner
where in order for me to win someone has
to lose. we can partner because if we if
a customer has made a choice of going
with company A and company B and we
happen to be one of those two companies,
we owe it to the customer to invest in
their success in that other company
because if the customer succeeds that
success has a flowthrough rate to you
that's going to be pretty high. And so
that's what we did and that I think
that's been those principles of building
great products but making sure that it
operates like a platform and having an
open ecosystem I think has been kind of
central and then not being confused
about the fact that we'll be AI first
from the top down.
>> I want to take a tangent and make sure
people understand what Cisco even does
these days. I think as a a lay person,
you'll think about Cisco and you're
like, "Okay, they uh WebEx." Yes. They
make maybe some routers. You guys are
key to this massive AI infrastructure
buildout that's happening right now.
You're a major player in this. I don't
think people realize this, people
listening to this podcast. Give us just
like a quick glimpse into how Cisco fits
into this massive buildout and just like
what is Cisco these days?
>> Cisco is a critical infrastructure
company for the AI era. What does that
mean? If you think about where the
constraints are right now. If you think
that AI is going to be one of the
biggest movements and then you ask
yourself the question, what could hold
AI back, there's three things where we
feel like we can have a direct impact
that can hold AI back. Number one is
there's an infrastructure constraint.
There's just not enough power, compute,
and network bandwidth in the world to go
out and satiate the needs of AI. Number
two is there's a trust deficit. If
people don't trust these systems,
they're not going to use them. And right
now there's a lot of mistrust in these
systems. You know, hallucination is a
feature when you're writing poetry, but
when you're trying to go out and run
predictable systems, uh hallucination
can be a bad thing. And these models are
unpredictable. They're
non-deterministic. And so they have to
make sure that they have safety and
security kind of factored into them. And
then the third area is a data gap. Like
so far we've trained these models with
you know um human generated data
publicly available on the internet but
we are running out of human generated
data publicly available on the internet
to train the models and every company is
going to differentiate based on their
own proprietary enterprise data being
used to train the models synthetic data
and machine data which is where the most
amount of growth is and the third
category of machine data we can play a
massive role in at Cisco so what does
Cisco do Then if you think about a GPU,
which is what everyone now has is very
clear because of the great job that
Jensen has done that here is what a
GPU's core contribution is to AI. If
these GPUs aren't together, you don't
have AI. Because it used to be that you
could train a model on a single GPU, but
then what happened was the model got too
big to be put on a single GPU. So then
you had a server with eight GPUs that
got connected together. So you could
train a model with eight GPUs. But then
that wasn't good enough. So then what
happened was you said I'm going to have
a rack of servers that I'm going to
network together.
That at some point wasn't big enough.
And so then they said, I'm going to have
a cluster of racks that are connected
together.
And those that connected together is the
operative word. That's what we end up
doing is Nvidia makes the GPUs and we
connect those GPUs together. AMD makes
the GPUs, we connect them together. Now
what's happened, Lenny, is you have
these data centers that might be
hundreds of kilometers apart
that need to operate like one coherent
cluster, which means that they're
completely in sync. Every GPU is in sync
with each other when you're doing a
training run. And that requires a very
sophisticated set of technologies that
we build to make sure that you could
have two data centers 800 km apart, but
boy, they run like completely in sync
with each other. And that's what Cisco
does. We provide the networking, we
provide the optics technology, we
provide the safety and security
technology, we provide the
observability, we provide um you know uh
the um uh the data platform. All of
those things together for making sure
that we provide critical infrastructure
for the AI era. So being on the inside
of this massive investment that is
happening across the world, what do you
think isn't being priced in into where
things are heading into how much life
will change or just like the scale of
this of this buildout?
>> Years ago, I'd had a chance to meet with
Ray Kerszswwell. Um, you know, I was a
chief scientist at Google for a while
and I think he still is and he had
talked about he was writing this book
called um, Live Long Enough to live
forever. And so I was talking to him.
I'm like, what is the impact to human
population if all of a sudden you can
have 15 generations living
simultaneously because we have an
indefinite span of life? Cuz now all of
a sudden, you know, everything has to
change. Like how does housing work,
housing work? How does agriculture work?
How does transportation work? How does
like everything changes? And he looked
at me and he he had the most profound
answer. And he said, you know, most
people can't think exponentially because
they always think exponentially maybe on
a single dimension.
But what ends up happening
in these things is you can sometimes
you have to keep in mind that
exponentiality happens across multiple
dimensions all at once. If you do have
an indefinite span of life,
you have to assume that humans are
creative enough that they're going to
find a way to have um 3-day crop cycle
and they probably will have 5,000 story,
you know, skyscrapers and there will be
a bunch of things in society that we
have assumed are not solvable that will
now be solvable. So when you go back to
your question and say what what changes
in this entire equation that has not
been factored in well I think today
AI is looked at largely as a
productivity tool and an aggregation
mechanism. I have data all over and I'm
going to be able to make sure that
language can be used to compose the data
in a way that I can give you Lenny the
quest answer to the question that you're
looking for. that I think is like the
0.00001%
of the tip of the iceberg, right? The
reality is is
we will have original insights generated
that don't exist in the human corpus of
knowledge and we will have the physical
world get augmented to language
where capacity is augmented to humans
and what we have to be a careful of is
that that capacity is working on behalf
of humans but if that capacity is
augmented to humans you can now do
things that you really care to do and
not do things that you don't care to do.
And so like our biggest realization that
we had when we were using codeex for
example when we were writing you know
code with um OpenAI's you know kind of
model and development tool was the first
three months we were screwing around
with this
and then there was this light bulb that
went off. In fact, there was a forward
deployed engineer from OpenAI that told
us about this. She's, hey, stop trying
to think of this as a tool. Think of
this as a teammate that got added to
your team and your framing will change
and the way in which you actually use
the technology will change.
And that that essentially if you
compound that to how society operates
that's going to be pretty profound as an
implication
while keeping in mind that these safety
and security risks are non-trivial
and they're real and you can't be you
know completely flippant about them
because how an AI
identifies its own success and its own
ambition will really matter and we have
to make sure that we actually keep guard
rails around that because it is in
service of humans. It is not to go out
and build a society by itself. And I do
think that that those are important kind
of checks that you have checks and
balances you have to keep in mind. But
the thing that people sometimes miss out
in this very polarized narrative which
is we are either going to have nothing
to do in society or this is going to be
completely useless as a piece of
technology. I think that's not a helpful
narrative. In fact, what is helpful is
saying as we reconstruct society for the
next phase, how can we make sure that
life gets infinitely better? How can we
make sure that diseases get solved? How
can we make sure that poverty gets
eradicated? How can we make sure that
how people learn and find excitement and
joy out of life gets compounded
meaningfully? If that happens, I think
there's goodness that comes out of this.
A line that I often think about is Elon
has had this uh thought that the best
case scenario with AI because he was a
very like AI doomer uh for a long time.
Uh and I think the reason he got leaned
into AI is like I need to help steer
this in a direction that isn't going to
harm the world. Uh the way he described
it is the best case scenario for
humanity is where the house cat where is
just like okay nice just just keep
sitting here with me and I'll take care
of you. But he, by the way, the thing
the things that he is doing right now
are nothing short of extraordinary. And
you know, for all the critique that one
can have, like the the level of kind of
deep thinking that's going on with his
company, it's it's just crazy.
>> So, as you've been uh thinking about
where things are heading, I I I've been
liking to ask this question with for
people with kids. Is there anything
you're kind of shifting in how you raise
your your daughter, keeping in mind
where things are heading and like are
there skills you're trying to instill in
her, values you're trying to instill in
her that help her will help her thrive
in this future?
>> We made a choice and I didn't know how
that choice was going to go. That was
actually not even an active choice. It
was a passive choice. Frankly, even
might have been slightly intellectually
lazy in the way that we did it, but it
actually worked out pretty well in the
sense that we didn't really deprive her
of the use of technology. Like, it's a
school of thought that says keep
technology away from the kids for a
while. We didn't do that. And frankly, I
didn't know how it was going to work out
because there are things about the way
that the generation
is, and by the way, all of us, not just
the new generation, but this kind of
constantly being glued to your phone all
the time and not being able to actually
put that down and have a conversation,
um, you know, is I think it's an
important skill in humans to have and
preserve over time. And in fact, as AI
does more for us, we should be able to
have more of this time where I don't
have to worry about every notification
that's coming on my phone every minute
of the day because maybe I can be more
present in the moment that I'm in. She
just turned 15 and the night before she
was turning 15, what I realized is she
is so emotionally
mature. We were sitting down one night
and she's like, "Hey, Dad, just so you
know, um, I feel really good right now
about having a very strong
value system." I'm like, "Oh, okay. What
does that mean?" And say more. And she's
like, "Well, can you name five things
that you feel so convicted about that if
the entire world disagreed with you,
this this is the day before she's
turning 15, okay? the entire world
disagreed with you, you would still feel
like you were right on that and that
would not waver you. She's like, I have
a certain core set of things that I
believe in
where I am completely confident that if
everyone disagreed with me, I'm still
good. Now, by the way, I have to kind of
coach her on the hey, when you get new
data, be open-minded to changing your
mind. But it was actually a very
interesting dynamic which is, you know,
if we can have them be exposed to
technology but have the right value
system, you might actually have the best
of both worlds. And um and you know,
it's the day ain't over yet. She's 15.
There's a lot of, you know, chances for
her getting influenced by uh external
factors and all of that. But what you
have to do is make sure that you instill
the right values, but then also expose
them to the reality of what the world is
today. uh and not completely insulate
them from that. And so I I the way that
it worked out, it did end up end up
working well. And um we were lucky for
no credit to us, she was she was able to
use technology to get her EQ higher and
higher and uh we were lucky on that
front and we know it can go sideways the
other way too. But I do feel like right
now, at least for my one daughter, what
we try to do is get her exposed to the
technology, but make sure that we focus
a lot more on the values that we need to
have that govern us on a day-to-day
basis. You know, kindness, you know, not
being arrogant, uh, hard work, work
ethic, those things matter. And I don't
think those are timeless in my mind. I
don't think those change because, you
know, take risks, be creative, that kind
of stuff. GT, these are parenting goals
as I hear this. I have a two and a
half-year-old. Mr. It sounds like you've
you've done an amazing job raising your
daughter.
>> I would take zero credit for it. I think
um I think she deserves a lot of credit
for growing up to be who she's become.
>> And her mother,
>> gota got to shout out mom.
>> Uh what's interesting is that uh I know
anthropic is really big like this idea
of values and just like how you operate.
Anthropic has this constitution they
released of how the values essentially
of Claude and it's so interesting how
much similarity there is to how to raise
a great person and to how to steer an AI
correctly.
>> That's right. And and by the way it's um
some of your beliefs and your
system around you might change but
values tend to be pretty longasting and
culture in a company tends to be pretty
long-lasting. like you know when we um
Ben Horovitz talks about this very
eloquently the culture is just a set of
norms that a company actually it's not
it's not a set of beliefs it's a set of
behaviors that you exude within the
company and it's it's it's actually very
very true because when things aren't
going right how do people behave to go
solve problems and come together um and
that actually forms your cultural norms
and I think those cultural norms are
it's very important to be intentional
about it and as you have more automation
in the
Being intentional not just with humans
but also with machines on what you want
to do to create the guardrails I think
is pretty important.
>> I'm going to take us in a a different
direction. I talked to Aaron Levy your
former boss at your dear friend.
>> Yeah
>> and friend. Uh so I asked him just what
should I ask you about? What's something
that uh he learned from you that has
stuck with him ever since working with
you? and he uh shared this concept of
the right to win which he says has
informed the way he thinks about
strategy ever since. Talk about what
this is and how folks might use this
when they're thinking about product
strategy, company strategy.
>> One of the things that we would always
talk about is
in the areas that we're going to
participate,
do we have permission to play? Every
company,
you know, has to make sure that the way
in which they provide points of
insertion and logical entry into a
market is a lot of times dependent on do
you have the permission to play in that
market? Do you have an avenue to get to
your to have a route to market to be
able to take that product? Just by
building a product that is amazing in in
some area, you you don't end up actually
getting it to mass scale distribution.
And so one of the things that we would
always do is ask ourselves the question,
we're building this new category or
we're building this new capability.
Is it going to be logical for people
that box built it versus another company
building it? You know, is it is it going
to be logical for people that Cisco
built it versus another company building
it? So that's this notion of permission
to play, the right to win. Do we have a
right to win in that area because we
have permission to play? And do we have
the route to market to be able to take
that product and get it to mass scale
distribution? And if you can do those
things right, then actually your dollars
that you expend on building product
actually have an outsized return. If
not, then you can actually spend up
spend end up spending a lot of money on
product where the product people think
ah these sales guys don't get it. They
don't know how to sell it. Especially in
enterprise software and the sales people
think these product guys don't get it.
they don't know how to build it. And so
I think in order to stop that, what you
have to do is you have to actually use
your scale as an advantage and you have
to use the areas where you've got the
ability to have permission to play where
people feel like this is very logical
for a company like Cisco. Like when we
say we're going to network the GPUs
and make sure that we actually have a
trusted system in AI, that is not
far-fetched for someone to go out and
think about because it's a very natural
thing for us to do because for the past
40 years, we've been doing it for the
rest of the infrastructure that was not
AI. And so that's not a far cry to say,
"Okay, we'll now do it for AI, you know,
and I think that was an area that Aaron
and I spent um a fair and by the way,
you know, I'm glad that he he took that
out of me." There's so much I've learned
from him. The biggest area I've learned
from him is you never give up and
persistence beats intellect and stamina
beats intellect any day of the week,
twice on Sunday. And that that guy is as
smart as they come. But that is not the
why that's not the biggest reason he's
successful. He's the biggest reason he's
successful is he has an enormous amount
of staying power in the game. You know,
going back to my daughter's comment of
no matter what what everyone else says,
his convictions and belief, he will
actually stick by them and actually get
through um the hardest times.
>> I totally believe that. I I feel like
I'm not the smartest person in the room
usually and uh I succeed in large part
because I just work really hard.
>> You're pretty smart though. Like I've
I've been watching your podcast for a
while. like you've done a pretty amazing
job.
>> I appreciate it. So, in this um this
permission to win concept, the reason I
think it's so important is it's so easy
to build stuff now. Everyone's just
building building building launching
launching launching launching.
>> It feels like this is uh an increasingly
important lever is why will we win in
this space? Um I'm curious if there's an
example you can share either from Box or
Cisco where it's just like okay this is
like we're going to do this because we
because we have the permission to to
play here. I agree with you in the sense
that if if generating code is something
that becomes abundant,
that doesn't mean you're going to have
better technology just because you can
generate a lot of code. You still need
human judgment. You still need a level
of intuition on what problems are the
right ones to solve. you still and yes
AI can help you with all of that but
it's not something that like that's
where humans have a superpower they have
instinct and they can actually make sure
that they can you know fulfill out a
vision that says this is what I think
this could be in in the fullness of
time. Um and so that that I think is
pretty important. So the more the easier
it gets for us to get the bottlenecks
out to generate code, the harder it gets
for us to make sure that there's not AI
slop in the market and that we actually
are very selective on what are the
things that are going to be the most
important things that solve the most
important problems moving forward.
example of permission to play is I mean
there's so many ideas at a company the
size of Cisco we have constantly new
ideas that keep coming up you know
and then in those new ideas that keep
coming up people will always say oh my
goodness this company is doing so well
we should just go into that market or we
should just go into this market and 90%
of the times 99% of the times I find
myself saying no. And the reason for
that is you have to be extremely
selective of where you expend your
calories. And that caloric expenditure
is is where you know if you expend your
calories in a very focused way, the
results you'll get from that focus area
tend to be outsized and
disproportionate.
If you dissipate
that caloric burn across multitude of
different areas, nothing gets enough
girth to be able to go out and drive it
all the way through. And and so like,
you know, why are we not in
business to consumer tech at Cisco,
right? Like why why are we not going out
and building things that are um very
very BTOC? because I don't think we have
a distribution channel that actually is
within our DNA. I don't think that we've
got permission to play there. That's an
area where it would be extremely hard
for people to grow that Cisco should be
the one who's participating in that.
Now, can we do it? Of course, we can do
it. Is that where we want to go? Or do
we want to go where there's so much
opportunity in the areas where we can
actually prosecute with with the um with
the with the ability to have, you know,
operate from a position of strength
that um you'll just get a much better
return for the dollar that you invest.
You
>> mentioned Aaron as a CEO that you
learned a lot from. I'm curious what
other CEOs you've learned a lot from and
what's what's something you learned from
them. Chuck Robbins is one of my
favorite humans and not just because I
work for him. Uh I work for him because
he's one of my favorite humans. Um
>> and
what I've learned from him, he had this
kind of great line. There was this um
you know piece of press that
our our media is very s sensationalist
in by by definition, right? like they
will try to create a very polarized view
about the world where there actually
isn't one. In most things in my life,
things are not as extreme as you hear of
the headlines of the media, you know, uh
it's somewhere in the middle, right? And
uh there was one time that there was
this
article that ran
and it was about like you know giving me
an unnecessary amount of credit
and frankly not giving Chuck as much
credit about something that he has
actually done like a lot of the
movements that we've had internally
wouldn't have happened if he had not
hired me and given me agency to go do
the things that I needed to get done and
he was very much completely in sync with
me on what needed to happen. Um, and so,
you know, I when I saw this article, I
had no idea the report. I I reached out.
I'm like, "Hey, I just want to let you
know this was not me saying it's
someone." I g don't worry about it, man.
What I've learned in life is if you
don't care about who gets the credit,
you just go a lot farther in life. And
it's so profound,
right, in so many ways that
he's just way too confident to let
anything. And so the thing I've learned
from Chuck is the importance of
confidence and the importance of knowing
what you're good at and what you're not
good at. And when you're not good,
you're going to assemble a team of
people around you. He's just he's just
masterful at that. And it happens.
>> By the way, he's the he's the CEO of
Cisco in case people
>> That's right. He's the CEO of Cisco.
He's the chair of the business round
table. Uh he's um very dear friend of
mine and um and I feel like there's a
lot to learn from that kind of mental
model and mindset.
And I I I've been lucky enough Lenny
that and this is just dumb luck. The
people that I've worked with and for are
all very very close to me and I just
don't let them go from my life. And so
one of the things for example is I
worked with Aaron and then when I was
leaving it was very emotional
uh but I wanted to do something
different but we committed to each other
that we're going to have dinner every 6
weeks and Aaron and there's another
co-founder Jeff Kiser and I three of us
every 6 weeks in Palo Alto we have
dinner you know and it's one of the most
uh special things that I I still do and
it's a tradition now it's been going on
for 6 years And um and I love it, you
know. Um you um you look at someone like
Chuck, we have I I start with my day
with talking to him in the morning. We
we text each other uh and then I end the
day talking to him in the evening and we
probably touch base at least four or
five times a day. They're not long
conversations at all points in time, but
we're constantly in contact with each
other. And I feel like that only happens
when you've established enough trust.
There's my one my first boss when I
moved to California's this guy named
Rick Devonoodi. Uh and then and there's
another guy named Jeremy Burton. You
know, Rick Devonoodi is still my coach.
I see him every two weeks. Jeremy is
someone that's a very dear friend of
mine and we're neighbors and we moved
and bought a place next to his um just
so that we could be close to him. And
these are like special people in your
life that have enriched your life in
very different ways that I I think you
just have to make sure that you
treasure.
Today's episode is brought to you by
Samsara. If you listen to this podcast,
you know that we spend a lot of time
talking about building things that sit
on a screen. Onboarding funnels, mobile
apps, and checkout flows. Samsara is
building products for the physical
world. First responders racing to
emergencies, truck drivers carrying
critical supplies, construction workers
building our cities and data centers.
These are people who put everything on
the line every single day. And Samsara's
technology protects them. Samsara is
solving complex problems at the
intersection of hardware, software, and
edge AI. And their AI doesn't just
detect events. It reasons about the
intent and answers questions like, "Did
that truck driver break abruptly because
they were distracted, or was that a
heroic act?" If you want to ground LLMs
in messy real world telemetry or solve
edge AI constraints at a planetary
scale, Samsara wants to talk to you. If
you like playing with enormous data
sets, moving fast and working in small
teams, come help build the technology
that makes the physical world safer and
more efficient. Visit samsara.com/lenny
to learn more. That's samsar.com/lenny.
So, you're currently CPO at Cisco. you I
think the team under you is it 25,000
people. Is that the right number?
>> About 30,000 but um
>> 30,000 people. Okay.
>> Yeah.
>> What's what's something that you wish
you'd known before taking on this role?
I don't know if it was I mean I
instinctively kind of knew it but it was
very very uh accentuated at Cisco
because when you like you know when
people say oh is um is scale hard and my
perspective has always been that the
absence of scale is way harder
than scale. What do I mean by that? Like
if I have a startup
with three people
and we need to prosecute another idea
and that idea requires
um you know five people working on it, I
have to go raise money,
right? Like it's it's an ent or I have
to pivot my entire business.
If you have 30,000 people and you have
an idea that requires five people, you
just figure out a way that you allocate
the dollars internally
and say let's go prosecute this idea.
So in my mind, I always felt like
absence of scale was way harder
than the presence of scale and operating
with within scale seemed like it was
like yeah, you have more opportunity to
do it. What I found
over the years, not just at Cisco, but
even when I because I ran a small
startup in in um in Chicago for like 17
years before I moved over to the valley,
what I found in the large companies is
the communication framework and the
lossiness of communication, the
telephone game, so to say,
has a profoundly negative effect if
you're not intentional about it and if
you're not careful of it. And there was
this board member that we had. There's a
couple board members. Um, you know, our
lead director, Michael Capellis, is
amazing. Um, there's this other board
member, you know, Kevin is amazing. And
then there's this one board member, West
Bush, who we recently, um, you know,
rolled off, but he used to be on our
board. And when I got this job, he
pulled me aside. He's like, G, I'm going
to tell you something. I'm going to give
you some advice and, um, take it or
leave it, but I think it's going to be
important for you to keep it in mind.
Like, what's that? and he goes,
"Whatever you do,
um, don't think about your story of the
company as a marketing exercise. Think
about it as the most intrinsic
foundational exercise of the company and
always be the custodian of the message.
Don't delegate that to someone else to
give it because if you have three, four,
five, six, seven layers between you and
the person who's actually doing the job
in the front line. What you don't want
to do is play the telephone game and
assume that people will just cascade it
when you go to your team and then say,
"Okay, that team will cascade to the
next team. Cascade to the next team,
cascade to the next team." Every one of
them will add a flavor with
well-intentioned
and then by the time it gets to the end,
people won't know what it is. So, always
own telling the story. And I'm like,
that seems like it's a lot because like
we have a very broad portfolio. We do
all of these events. It's, you know,
like I'm going to have to set stand on
stage for
90 minutes and just talk about he's
like, "Please do that. Make sure you
don't and and I initially the hidden
benefit that came out of it that I did
not realize is it massively, Lenny
simplified our business." And you know
why? Because we have such a broad
business with so many different
industries, it's impossible for someone
to be a deep expert in every single one
of them across the board. Like there's
just way too much surface area.
But the things that we want to convey to
the market that the market should take
away from us. If that story is not
something that I understand well enough
to be able to convey it, how do I first
expect 20,000 of my sellers to be able
to go tell it to the market? And how do
I expect my customers
to be able to digest that story? There's
zero chance that would happen,
right? And so
that was my my kind of big takeaway from
this, which is don't um delegate the
storytelling. And the storytelling is
not a marketing exercise after you built
the product. The story is why you build
the product to make the story come real.
And so make sure that the story is there
first and then that story has evidence
and proof
based on the products that you're
building. I had a conversation with Matt
Mc McInness who's COO now CPO at Ripling
and a similar piece of advice which I
think is also it's like a uh adjacent
advice which is the intensity of of an
idea or or a plan drops at every level
that it goes from CO to the next layer
and layer and your job as a leader is to
maintain that intensity not to buffer it
from the employees but to maintain
exactly the same intensity and it feels
like that's in addition to also just the
keep the story the same like don't
filter it don't change it although your
advice is even different just like you
actually go to the team working on it
and and tell the story yourself don't
even
>> I want to make sure that they hear it
from me directly so that there's no
lossiness
>> you know like we have this concept in
networking called packet loss when you
you know you actually send packets over
a wire and you have a loss of packets
then actually there's
>> um um there's loss of data like you
don't want to have packet loss in your
storytelling from you to the person on
the front line because
>> it's a direct Ethernet cat 5 connection.
>> This is this a direct connection and you
know there's no packet loss on this one.
Like you you got to make sure it gets to
the intended audience. And I think the
reason for that is as companies get
large, they can lose touch with the
front lines. Like everyone gets really
good with the math of the business, but
they don't really always preserve the
soul of the business. And there's a
lossiness that happens because you know
if you have seven eight layers between
you and the front line even the message
that's coming back to you from them is
actually getting lossy and so what you
have to do is just preserve and I think
um what was said earlier about the
intensity is the same way which is you
got to preserve the intensity you got to
preserve the sanctity of the message and
you got to preserve the clarity of the
message so that everyone is clear on the
direction we're going down and if you
can stay clear and stay motivated about
that direction and make sure that
everyone's on the same page on what
needs to be done to execute, you will
have success. If not, you will actually
have guaranteed failure.
>> How do you actually operationalize this
without just uh being overloaded with
work and constantly having to you know
meet with every team and remind them of
the story?
>> The first thing I feel is you have to
have very clear thinking because the
clarity of thought is what brings
clarity of communication. So you have to
spend the time with your team in
sweating the details on what what it is
that you want to do and why you want to
do it. The context of why
is so lost
uh and constantly reminding people why
it's important and having the least
amount of asymmetry between the topmost
layer in the organization and the
bottommost layer is super. Now by the
way you know I'm a section 16 officer.
There are certain things that for
example you're in a quiet period you
can't go talk about to someone else
during that time period like you you
know but that's not allowed. However,
the most amount of context that you can
provide them in the way that you can
because you're allowed to, the better
off you are. And always treat people
like adults. You know, like what I found
is often times when you go into
corporate environments, like people
start becoming
very sterile in the facts that they
provide. And sometimes it's okay to just
say, "Hey, we screwed up here. This was
really bad."
It's not meant to, you know, like one of
the things that I found to be very
counterintuitive because every
management book that you read will tell
you otherwise. What do they say? Praise
in public and criticize in private.
I fundamentally disagree with that
notion. I think what you have to do is
establish enough trust among the team so
that you are comfortable
critiquing and debating in public. But
when you're in private,
take that moment to build the trust.
Because if you build that trust and you
tell them that you've got their back
and you create a level of safety there
in public,
you don't want to be in a mode of
posturing. You want to be in a mode of
problem solving. When you're just giving
people prefuncter compliments all the
time and everything is just hunky dory,
rose color glass is great. All your
dashboards look green, but you're
growing the business at like 1 and a.5%.
Like there's there's an asymmetry there.
something's broken, you know, it's like,
what do we need to do over here? And so,
what I tend to do is use the exact
opposite approach. I tend to be very,
very direct in public.
You know, be respectful, but be direct
in public. This is not working. Let me
tell you why it's not working. We got to
face the facts and then be very, very
kind of um clear with people that you
got their back in private. And don't be
stingy with words on that front, you
know. Um because I feel like some there
are times when people are very stingy
with words with people in private. You
can't be stingy with words over there.
And don't be don't be stingy with
critique in public because I think
people need to make sure that we're
we're solving problems together. And if
we don't know the play that we're
executing, if we don't know the things
that we're going to need to do, then
then I I'm not really certain if you're
making collective progress. And I think
it's not going to be fulfilling to
either you or the recipient at some
point. And those those compliments will
feel hollow because you didn't mean them
because you to you you were trying to
put it in between, you know, like Ben
Horwit says in hard things about hard
things like you you have a
sandwich. You say something really nice
to someone then you say something that's
not really nice and then you put no just
treat people like adults. Tell them the
facts. Watch your tone. I still have to
work on that. There are times when I get
very passionate people think like you
know but watch your tone and
make sure that you debate conflict is a
necessary condition of business but the
only way that you can have productive
conflict is if you've established trust
and the only way that you can establish
trust is by making sure that you spend
the time to establish the trust. So
spend the time to establish the trust
but then focus on the best idea winning
and actually having the debate. Is there
maybe one more lesson that you learned
from this or I guess it's a something
you wish you'd known before getting into
this role? Is there anything else that
comes to mind?
>> I was an apps guy. You know, I I
operated in the apps layer. I worked at
Box and even when I was at EMC,
I I was building apps that, you know, uh
you build for the end user.
Infrastructure is a different game.
And the thing that I learned about
infrastructure is
you don't always get the glory, but you
always get the blame.
>> Perfect.
>> And and you have to be comfortable with
the fact that you are working in a way
that other people get the glory. Great
infrastructure companies,
the application companies get the glory
when they're running on that
infrastructure, you know. And so you you
have to be hardwired in infrastructure
to orient on your ecosystem success, not
just your own success.
And that is probably one of the lessons
that I learned at Cisco in a very stark
way which I I didn't fully appreciate it
until I got into the details of the
infrastructure going wow if this thing
doesn't work you know like we were um
uh every single time our infrastructure
doesn't work this morning I was with um
with a medical institution and I was
with a healthcare company this morning
and they were telling me that you They
were very complimentary. They were
thanking us on the partnership.
I I asked them, "Why do you why are you
doubling down with us?" And they're
like, "Because
when the infrastructure doesn't work,
people die.
Someone doesn't get dialysis. Someone
doesn't get a surgery done.
And we need to make sure that we're
working with someone with the
infrastructure is working." And so I
feel like at that point in time, you
can't be naval gazing too much about
look how cool you are because you did
something. You have to just make sure
that you're really immediately shifting
your focus to what does the customer do
and what does the ecosystem do with your
infrastructure so that the outcome is
achieved and you have to get very
outcome oriented. Um, and I feel like
that was something that I always
intellectually knew, but I didn't fully
realize it until I came here on how
important of a mindset shift that is.
You are not talking about yourself.
You're talking about the system just
working. No one will come and tell you,
"Hey, Ju, um, thank you so much. My
network worked today." Right? But the
moment it doesn't work, they're going to
call you and say, "You know what? my
network's not working and my people
can't work and patients are dying in the
hospital.
And I think you just have to be
comfortable with that.
>> It's so interesting how this ad how this
lesson connects so directly to the
lesson you learned from Chuck, the CEO
of Cisco, which is don't don't expect
the the praise and the credit. You need
to be comfortable with other people
getting credit for your work.
>> That's right. And by the way, it's not
surprising given that he spent like I
don't know 26 28 years over here. Um
like you know why that you know the he's
he's conditioned with the fact that he's
focused on other people succeeding from
it
>> from his pit your work. You know
>> it feels like there's so many metaphors
and uh corlaries to uh networking as a
way to think about leadership and and
living life.
>> It really is. Oh man, I bet you guys
have all kinds of examples.
>> We It's It's a good exercise to actually
go through and uh create the coralary of
um parallelism between life and
networks.
>> I'm thinking about just like how many
friends like Dunar's number like how
many nodes can you have in a network
before it starts to slow down?
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> Maybe 150. Oh man. Okay. Anyway, I was I
like that your mind's spinning.
>> I'm thinking like how many can you have?
I think more than 150 for sure.
I hope so. I hope so. Um, I also was
thinking about Intel. The whole Intel
inside move was such a clever way to
break through that where, you know, no
one had no Intel so they're just like
slap a stick or Intel inside.
>> And by the way, they are um, you know,
Lipu is a is a very dear friend. Pat
Gellzinger used to be my mentor at EMC.
Um, and so both those people that have
had such a profound contribution to that
industry in general. um like when you
start thinking about them, they are very
very much on that on that mode.
>> I could see how you pulled together this
uh insane collection of humans if you
just feels like you're just friends with
everybody.
>> I feel like it's life's too short not to
be and I'm only friends with people that
I feel are good human beings. Like what
I try not to do is I try to minimize my
time, no matter how successful they are,
with people whose energy I don't vibe
with because I think life's too short,
you know. And um in my mind, one of the
most off-putting things
is look, all of us have a healthy ego.
There are times when ego gets manifested
with insecurity. And you have to make
sure that you're at least self-aware
enough to know when your ego is starting
to take over your behavior in a way
that's counterproductive. And all of
those things are super important. But
what I think is
extremely important is that you um like
it life is just fun to live when
when you love the people you are around.
Can I digress for a second in this one
story that I so I'll I'll tell you the
story that was
>> so my mother was um you know she passed
away two and a half years ago but she
was extremely sick in the hospital for
like um 8 weeks before she passed away
and I was very close to my mom like that
she was my my everything you know and
and we were only child I grew up with a
rough childhood I had to you know my dad
was a highstakes kind of con man like
Bernie Maid off. I didn't want to be any
part of that. So I had actually left
India come over here hadn't gone hadn't
seen him and so he was very abusive to
my mom. like there was a bunch of that
that had happened. And so we had had a
very, you know, kind of difficult early
childhood life for me. And her and I had
bonded during that that time very very,
you know, at a very deep level.
And so when she came came to America, um
you know, we kind of she always wanted
to have her own place, but she kind of
lived very close by and she was very
dependent on me on you know, emotionally
and in every way. And so
I had almost become a parent to her
and at the last 8 weeks things flipped
and she was
um she became a parent again and so we
were you know kind of we were getting to
the point where she was ending her
journey
and I was sitting like 1:00 in the
morning at the um at the bedside by her
in the hospital. I was living in the
hospital at the time and she was
sleeping and I was just crying profusely
and she wakes up and she knows why I'm
crying because she's going to be gone
soon.
And she looks at me, Lenny, and she's
like all perplexed and she's like, "I
had no idea that you loved me so much."
Now, by the way, this is like the most
uh abnormal thing for me to hear because
I'm like, "What are you talking about,
mom?" Like, I like you're you're one of
the most important people in my life.
And I was like, everything that I did
was to make sure that my mom was okay.
Why did I why did it feel that way to
her? Because she didn't know how I was
thinking. And that kind of notion of
people don't know what's going on in
your mind is so important that my
biggest lesson from that was don't be
stingy with words. Cuz even my mother
that knows me inside and out didn't know
how much I loved her. That there's no
chance that people in the business world
are going to know how you feel if you're
not explicit with them. And so I'm
actually very clear with people when I
find them and when I find them
rewarding, I let them know how much they
mean because I genuinely find a lot of
energy coming out of that. And we the
circle of friends just keeps getting
bigger and bigger and bigger. And I I
found that to be like a super rewarding
thing in life. And um and you're right,
most of the people that were at the AI
summit are are dear friends, you know,
and isn't that the just a better way to
live life?
>> I've I think we've uncovered one of the
secrets of your success, which is uh
just tell people how you feel and help
them see that you appreciate them. Make
it clear that you appreciate them, that
you value them, which is a lot of people
don't do. They just kind of assume they
know that, you know, that they like you.
>> And don't make it fake.
>> And don't make it fake. Don't make it
fake. You know, if you don't love
someone, don't tell them you love them.
It's like that's the other thing that I
have. But, you know,
>> it's so interesting. I just um we just
did a little interview kind of thing
with my mother-in-law
meant for our our son, just like for him
to have when he's older. Uh they just
like interviewed her about her story and
stuff and they asked her at the end of
it, "What's something you want Jude,"
which is his name, to to to know, a
lesson to learn from you? And it's to
just if you love someone, tell them you
love them as much as you can.
>> Yeah, it's so true. You're so
intentional about the way in which you
do these things. I wish I'd done like a
I should do that now that I think about
it. Like do a podcast for my daughter
that's only for her when she gets older.
>> I'll send you these this group. They do
this. I think they're in the Bay Area,
but it's incredible. It's like a whole
documentary thing where they interview
you, film all your life for a little
bit, and then make a whole documentary
from
>> Oh, really? Oh wow. I'd love that
actually.
>> Yes. Oh man, they're gonna get a lot of
business right now.
>> There you go.
>> Let me end with a question around just
your journey. So today you lead product
at a a 90,000 person company. You
managed 30,000 people. Like you said,
you you were grew up in in India and
Bombay uh very far outside Silicon
Valley. A lot of people hearing this
today are kind of in a similar boat.
They're way outside of the valley.
they're they're maybe they don't have a
lot of obvious way to break in to they
don't have a lot of opportunity and they
see someone like you and that's their
dream. What would your advice be to
someone in in that place right now?
The platform that you choose and the
quality of problems that you pick to
solve actually determine a lot of the
path of success for you. And typically
like harder problems have a higher
likelihood of success because the harder
problems are the ones that attract
better people
to that problem. And business is a team
sport. And if you attract
people to the the problems that are hard
and important enough to solve, then then
you get the best team. And when you get
the best team, your odds of winning just
go up exponentially. So most people
think, I'm going to go out and pick a
easy enough problem to solve. It's like
you don't get the best team attracted to
you to start up a lemonade stand. Very
important job, but that might not be the
thing that actually gets the best team
to come to you. But if you actually pick
a hard enough problem to solve, you'll
get the best team to come. So that's
one. Number two, I'd say that you can
teach and learn a lot of things in life.
I don't think you can learn hunger,
but you can't teach hunger. So find what
you're intrinsically hungry about and
make sure that you try to pursue that
area. And that's different from passion
about something. It's like in everything
that you do in work, you have to just
understand the formula that there's
going to be 30% of the stuff that you do
at work that you're just going to hate.
And you have to get used to things that
you hate that you have to do, you know.
Um but for the but find something that
you're really hungry about that makes
you want to come in
um to work every day because the mission
is worth the um the expenditure of uh of
energy that you're you're you're putting
into it. And I'll leave you with a story
which was like I I hadn't gone to India
in a long time. When I left India I
didn't go back. I left in '91 and I
hadn't gone back in any kind of
meaningful way until 2017.
um you know because of all the trauma
and childhood I was like you know I was
uh for whatever reason I hadn't gone
back but I I took my daughter and we
went to Agra to see the Taj Mahal and we
went there and there was this tour guide
his name was Raj and this tour guide was
like he understood
so much about the product that he was
selling which was the tour of the Taj
Mahal I don't know if he was making this
up or not but it sounded really
good and he seemed like he was kind of
early on it. But when we were walking
back, there's all these people and he
would just start talking to them and
he'd bust out in different languages.
You'd talk to someone in German, talk to
someone in French, someone in Spanish,
someone in Hindi, someone in, you know,
and at some point in time in Mandarin
and at some point in time I kind of
stop, dude, how many languages do you
speak? He's like, "Oh, I speak like, I
don't know, 12 or 14 or some ridiculous
number, but I try to learn a new
language every year." I'm like, "Oh, why
is that?" And he goes, Well, I just want
to honor the people that come here and
not be presumptuous that they will speak
in a language that I know. I want to
speak in their language. And I'm
thinking to myself, I was a box at the
time. I'm like, "This guy is smarter
than every person on the executive team
and probably just as smart as every
salesperson we have, but he's making $10
a day." And all of us are enjoying this
amazing life. And it's because we have
access to a platform and he doesn't. So
when people start confusing life
thinking that everything that I've
earned is because of my amazing
abilities, I always kind of question
that because there's a lot of luck in
this thing. But when luck does present
itself, be extremely prepared to
capitalize on it and make sure that you
pick the platform that can actually give
you that springboard because platforms
really matter. And if we like I had the
platform and benefit of America of
education of um of being in um in tech
of having great friends and mentors that
all of those things created compounding
value right but you we I intentionally
sought out those platforms
seek out the platform
be
obsessed about being extremely prepared
and don't be intellectually lazy. Uh
laziness is not a good trait. Uh so do
the preparation that's needed and then
um you know just make sure that during
that time period that you're doing if
you build
a community around you of people that
are vested in your success.
I think it's just be life is just a more
fun way to live it rather than being the
lone wolf that's going at it by
themselves. And that's why I always feel
like making sure that you are expressive
and communicative and don't try to carry
the entire world's burden on your
shoulders, but actually share it with
people with you. The people that you
share it with actually appreciate that
you're sharing it with them. And most
people in the world love to help.
So ask for the help, but make sure that
that help is not transactional. Don't
just go to them when you need something.
Actually try to add value first for a
long enough amount of time. Not because
at some point you might need something
from them. Just hardwire yourself into
adding value to others and then
eventually that value starts showing up
and life is just a better it's just
better way to live life. And I do feel
like right now it's hard for kids
getting into the workforce and all of
that. So don't lose hope and stay
persistent and have stamina because um
these things go up and down but if you
kind of stick with it the people that
have the most amount of persistence it's
very seldom that they don't end up
winning. something that comes to me as
you share this this advice. Uh Arnold
Schwarzenegger has this book that he put
out and I feel like the title of the
book is the best piece of advice and the
simplest way to describe how to be
successful in life which is be useful.
>> That is so good.
>> Gigi, this was incredible. Is there
anything that we didn't cover that you
wanted to share? Anything you want to
leave listeners with before we get to
our very exciting lightning round? I
think there's a framework that I use for
great companies that might be worth kind
of sharing with people. Yes, there's a
six-part framework um that I have which
is like you know um in descending order
of importance
>> and um
on how to build great companies. Uh this
is
>> amazing.
>> You you get it for free. Um you you you
get what you pay for it. So that take it
with a grain of salt. But here's the way
I think about it. The most important
thing is timing. The six things you need
in a company. If you don't have all
these six, you don't win. But they're
stackranked in descending order of
importance. But you have to have all
six. Number one is timing. It's the most
important. It's the thing that you
control the least. And there's a lot of
companies that have built amazing
products, amazing services at the wrong
time in the right market and not one.
Right? And so timing really matters. you
don't control timing, but if you don't
have timing, you don't win. Number two
is the market. You have to be able to go
after a large enough market a chunk at a
time. And if you don't, if you're not
able to go out and prosecute a market a
chunk at a time, but make sure that that
keeps getting bigger and bigger, uh it's
very hard to win. So market tends to be
the second most important thing in my
mind after timing.
The third one then is team. You know,
you have to have the right team. And the
team does not mean just people liking
each other. team means that it is
actually well-rounded. That means the
things that you
suck at, someone else is really good at
and you've both accepted that of each
other. Like for example, I have a person
that I never go to another job without
and she is my partner in crime and um
the reason I have her is because she is
so good at things that I'm not good at,
you know, and so she's able to so we I
any job I've taken since I've been
working with her, it's always it's a
combined deal. Like if we don't have two
offers, we don't go right. And so team
is really important. a well-rounded team
where people understand how to um how to
complement each other. And by the way,
in the team, sometimes people say,
"Well, isn't team more important than
market?" No. If you have a great market,
mediocre team, team, the market pulls
you up. If you have a shitty market and
a great team, the market drags you down.
The market always wins. So, no. Timing,
market, team. Number four is product. I
think product is the soul of a company.
That's the that's the place where people
seek value is what are you delivering to
me? What problem are you solving to me?
Gets manifested through the delivery of
a product. So you have to make sure that
you build a great product. I actually
think it's unethical to have a mediocre
product sold in the market. So timing,
market, team, product. Number five is
brand. I had a mentor one time um that
told me Mark Lewis, he said, "John,
don't ever go to a company uh who's lost
their brand mojo because very hard to
resurrect it back." If they have lost
their product and you can fix the
product, but do you think Caiase is
coming back? No. Like you know once you
lose your brand, once you lose the
trust, people don't come back to you
that much. So it's very hard to do. And
then number six is distribution. Just
because you build it, they will not
come. you have to make sure that you
figure out a scaled mechanism of getting
that that offering to
uh to many many people and so timing
trumps market, market trumps team, team
trumps product, product trumps brand,
brand trumps distribution. You don't
have all six, you don't win.
>> What an amazing nugget to have at the
end here. Um just so I understand how
you think about this is do you have like
a template that you work through when
you're thinking about a new business
unit or a new product to launch? Is it
like what's is timing right? is market
what market do we start with how do you
actually operationalize
>> that's actually exactly like that I I
will ask myself the question on is this
the right time for us to go out and
double triple quadruple down we might
still be in experimentation mode but do
I need to double down on this right now
because this might not manifest for
another seven years and then it's going
to be too early and by the way you have
to know the difference between a mega
trend and a hype cycle
When there's a mega trend, don't fight
don't fight it. And don't succumb to the
temptation of trying to go out and do
vanity work for a hype cycle. And
there's a big difference between the
two. And and I think having that
judgment, the older you get, the better
that judgment gets. It's just miles, but
having that judgment is really important
because you see a pattern recognition at
some point.
>> I imagine AI mega trend.
>> AI is a mega trend. uh in my mind. Um
and you know there's a bunch of hype
cycles we've had where I don't I didn't
never particularly subscribe to them.
And the easiest way for me to tell is
the way it's described. Is it easy to
understand what this could do in its
ultimate form for most people or do you
need to have a PhD to understand what
someone's saying? When you feel like you
need a PhD to understand what someone's
saying, chances are it ain't going to be
a mega trend. Because by definition a
mega trend is it's going to impact a
large population of the world and if the
if the thing is too complicated
chances are it's not going to have that
level of effect outsiz effect.
>> That's an awesome heristic. I imagine
you're thinking web 3 is a classic
example.
>> Yes. Web 3 was the one that I actually
cite all the time. Like this is like I I
couldn't understand what what it did and
like all these people were kind of like
oh web three web three. I'm like I
couldn't make a heads or tails out of a
use case. But with AI it's like you go
to chat GPT you ask it a question you
get an answer like I get this this is
easy you know
>> so going back to your framework just to
kind of close the loop there it's really
interesting that timing is the first
variable you look at this could be an
amazing idea you got the right team uh
amazing product that works really well
but the timing may just not be right and
no matter how awesome it is it's not
it's not going to work
>> Steve Jobs put away the iPad because he
thought that the iPhone was a better
idea and timing wise is he actually made
exactly the right call. You know, uh the
iPad became successful because of the
iPhone success. The reverse order might
have not had the same effect, but he had
to make sure that he focused on one
thing and he actually puts the other. He
said, "The timing is not right, but I'm
going to get back to it." So, by the
way, when timing is wrong, doesn't mean
that you scrap the idea. It just means
that you might put it on ice for a bit.
>> There's a lot of that happening right
now where people tried to do a thing and
now AI actually makes it possible and
now they're like, "Oh, shit." Yeah,
>> it was way too early.
>> And the other thing you have to keep in
mind is you have to also be good enough
to know that when something is going to
be ready in 6 months, you can't think
about where it's what it's doing today.
Like AI is moving so fast right now.
Like one of the things I tell my team is
fast forward 6 months from now and
anticipate what that's going to do and
get prepared for that world. Don't get
prepared for the world of today thinking
that you're not going to be able to get
there because in 6 months think your
assumption sets are going to be
different. And please don't actually
then bias yourself with the assumption
sets you have right now to not move
forward. Like one of the worst things I
think companies do sometimes is they put
too much emphasis only on solely on
experience. And I think experience is
good but experience can actually be
meaningfully bad in some areas where you
get too biased. And so you almost have
to say that I have to have the ability
to unlearn and combination of experience
with complete inexperience is what
creates the magic because the
inexperience allows you to ask questions
that you might have never had with
experience. And the combo of those two
gives you the best of the pattern
recognition plus the charting new
territory that's never been kind of
walked on before. Yeah, this is a trend
I've been hearing on this podcast that
people worry about young people and
people graduating out of college right
now and jobs and AI, but they're the
people that are most open-minded about
what AI can do for them and how to
harness AI and not code in the way
people have always coded. It's just
like, okay, this is the way it works
now.
>> Experience Lenny can jade us, right? And
I always when people say, oh, um, entry
level people will never be hired again.
I mean that's the stupidest thing a
company can do because now what you've
done is you have completely shut the
door to new fresh ideas like I cannot
think today the way I thought when I was
19. There is just no way that I can do
that. But what I can try to do is I can
try to make sure I surround myself with
enough amount of my time to get exposed
to that thinking and then couple it with
what I know and maybe have something
better than what either of those two
could have had by themselves.
>> Yes. Yeah.
>> Well, with that, G2, we have reached our
very exciting lightning round. I've got
five questions for you. Are you ready?
>> All right.
>> First question. What are two or three
books that you find yourself
recommending most to other people?
>> The Bible in tech in my mind is
Innovator's Dilemma and Innovator
Solutions from Clayton Christensen. I
think we you have to read that book and
I' I'd say I'd recommend to people that
read it every every few years. And then
the other one that I love is um Ben
Horowitz's book hard thing about hard
things really talks about how you manage
your psychology when things get hard. I
think those are the ones I I I'm not a
big believer that you keep reading like
thousands of books all the time because
I think like to me retention really
matters and my brain's just not that big
that I can retain that much. So, I tend
to
distill the essence of a few few things
quite a bit more and at least as the
older I've gotten, I've actually used
that pattern more.
>> Favorite recent movie or TV show that
you have really enjoyed?
>> I don't remember the name of it, but the
Brad Pitt F1 movie that I I saw that was
pretty cool. Um
>> the Wait, it was a recent Brad Pitt
movie.
>> Yeah. Yeah. The
>> Was it um F1?
>> It was It was F1, I think. I think it
was called F1, but it was pretty cool.
Um nominated for best. Zack Brown is a
good friend of mine and we big
supporters of McLaren and so
>> it was actually pretty cool to watch
that movie and
>> Oh man, I bet so many stories I haven't
tapped into. Okay. Uh favorite product
you recently discovered that you really
love.
>> I mean it's cliche but I feel like what
chat GPT Gemini and Claude have done um
like it's it's changed lives. It's
changed my life and the way that I learn
in some ridiculous ways. So I I actually
feel like when I got this new job to run
all product for Cisco, there is zero
chance I would have been able to do it
if AI wasn't there
because I didn't know anything about so
many domains that we were in and I had
to get an accelerated you know uh
training course within a matter of 3
months and I mean I worked around the
clock during that time but it would I
could have worked around the clock
without the tooling and I would have
been nowhere near as effective. So I
feel like those three have done an
amazing thing and and and Grock even
like you know um what you're seeing with
Grock tied to Twitter is pretty amazing.
>> Wow, that's a profound statement. I've
never heard that before from someone at
your level that you feel like you
wouldn't be able to have done this job
without AI.
>> It's your chance.
>> Especially for someone with the
background in in networking and and
hardware.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh that is so interesting. It's amazing
how just like at every level AI is
helping like at the most bottom end and
also in your level.
>> Most people don't like realize like I
fundamentally believe this is the the
reason that I'm able to enjoy some of
the experiences I have like I I was
lucky enough that we I'd made enough
money before this job that it was not
that was not the thing that was actually
holding us back. But the reason I'm able
to experience some of the things that
this job afforded me to experience um
would have not even been remotely
possible without AI. Like no chance that
would have happened.
>> Unreal. Okay, two more questions.
>> Yeah.
>> Do you have a favorite life motto that
you often come back to in work your own
life? You already shared a couple, but
is there anything else or you want to
double down on one you've already
shared?
>> Stamina trumps intellect. I feel like
it's very important to have smart
people, but you can become smart
if you have curiosity and hunger and
staying power and persistence. And so I
think that trait of like learning to
learn and constantly being hungry and
having the stamina and persistence is
far more important than the absolute
measure of intellect that you might have
because that is that is very very
trainable and learnable over time and
improvable over time. But hunger is very
>> it's not teachable is what I found.
>> I 100% agree with that. Interestingly,
when you watch AI work, it's just like
partly the reason it's so good is it
just keeps trying. It's just like,
"Okay, this didn't work. Let me keep
going. What else can we just keep
trying? I'll just give me half an hour.
I'll figure this out." Okay. Uh, last
question. So, when you were younger, you
worked at Sizzler Steakhouse making $4
an hour is what I read.
>> 225, not four. It was below minimum
wage.
>> 225. But, but we got tips. We got tips
though. So that was nice.
>> Okay, I see. Uh, did you have a favorite
dish at Sizzler is my question.
>> Yes, they used to have this Malibu
chicken dish. It was like magic, but um
and then um
um it was it was probably I don't know
if people know this and I know this is
rapid fire, but I used to stutter
when I started working at Sizzler.
Sizzler is what allowed me to
break out of my shell and not stutter
because, you know, something changed in
my brain. I'm like, I have to entertain
people and if I don't, then they're not
going to give me a good tip. And so, you
the stuttering went away at Sizzler. And
so, I have an immense debt of gratitude.
And I think everyone
should work in hospitality for a while
in their younger years. Uh, and I'm I'm
kind of sad that my daughter has no
interest in doing that because I'm like,
I wish she just worked as a waitress
somewhere for a bit. And it's just so
important to just there's so many
lessons on, you know, I I I cleaned
toilets at the restaurant. I actually
washed dishes. I actually waited on
tables. And it was
it was the best experience I had. Like
it it shaped me for what was to come. in
the most profound way.
>> G2, you're just endlessly full of of
wisdom. Two final questions. Where can
folks find you? Where do you want to
point people to to learn more about you,
what you're up to? And how can listeners
be useful to you?
>> Where you can find me is I I tend to a
lot of people will ask, you know, the
more um
success you encounter, the more people
want to get mentored by you and learn
from the experiences you've had. And I I
have run out of cycles to be able to do
that on a one-on-one basis. So what I
try to do is do a lot of that on
LinkedIn um and Twitter, but largely I I
do a lot of that on LinkedIn and so find
me on LinkedIn. Um I I tend to be very
open about um not just the work stuff
but the non-work stuff. Um so do that.
How can um people be useful to me? Was
that the question? What was the last
question?
>> That is how can listeners be useful to
you?
>> How can listeners be useful to me? If
there is um I would say that if you got
something out of this session and if you
get something out of whatever you learn
from social media,
just pay it forward. Um and help the
next person out a little bit more. Um
yesterday I was at a as a at a talk and
someone pulled me aside and said, "Hey,
I I saw your LinkedIn post about this.
Don't be stingy with words." and Ju
since then I've been going to see my
parents once every uh two months or so
in India and I when I see them I tell
them that I love them all the time
like literally um
what what could be more rewarding to me
than that like you know it was amazing
that they were able to go out and have
joy brought to their lives as a result
of something they got inspired by
something that I I learned in my life
that's like paid forward.
>> I'm excited to hear the stories that
come out of this conversation. G2, thank
you so much for being here.
>> Thank you for having me. It was great.
>> Bye everyone. Thank you so much for
listening. If you found this valuable,
you can subscribe to the show on Apple
Podcast, Spotify, or your favorite
podcast app. Also, please consider
giving us a rating or leaving a review
as that really helps other listeners
find the podcast. You can find all past
episodes or learn more about the show at
lennispodcast.com.
See you in the next episode.